Authentication
Kubernetes does not have an object called user, nor does it store usernames or other related details in its object store. However, even without that, Kubernetes can use usernames for the Authentication phase of the API access control, and to request logging as well.

Kubernetes supports two kinds of users:

Normal Users
They are managed outside of the Kubernetes cluster via independent services like User/Client Certificates, a file listing usernames/passwords, Google accounts, etc.
Service Accounts
Service Accounts allow in-cluster processes to communicate with the API server to perform various operations. Most of the Service Accounts are created automatically via the API server, but they can also be created manually. The Service Accounts are tied to a particular Namespace and mount the respective credentials to communicate with the API server as Secrets.
If properly configured, Kubernetes can also support anonymous requests, along with requests from Normal Users and Service Accounts. User impersonation is also supported allowing a user to act as another user, a helpful feature for administrators when troubleshooting authorization policies.

For authentication, Kubernetes uses a series of authentication modules:

X509 Client Certificates
To enable client certificate authentication, we need to reference a file containing one or more certificate authorities by passing the --client-ca-file=SOMEFILE option to the API server. The certificate authorities mentioned in the file would validate the client certificates presented by users to the API server. A demonstration video covering this topic can be found at the end of this chapter.
Static Token File
We can pass a file containing pre-defined bearer tokens with the --token-auth-file=SOMEFILE option to the API server. Currently, these tokens would last indefinitely, and they cannot be changed without restarting the API server.
Bootstrap Tokens
Tokens used for bootstrapping new Kubernetes clusters.
Service Account Tokens
Automatically enabled authenticators that use signed bearer tokens to verify requests. These tokens get attached to Pods using the Service Account Admission Controller, which allows in-cluster processes to talk to the API server.
OpenID Connect Tokens
OpenID Connect helps us connect with OAuth2 providers, such as Microsoft Entra ID (previously known as Azure Active Directory), Salesforce, and Google, to offload the authentication to external services.
Webhook Token Authentication
With Webhook-based authentication, verification of bearer tokens can be offloaded to a remote service.
Authenticating Proxy
Allows for the programming of additional authentication logic.
We can enable multiple authenticators, and the first module to successfully authenticate the request short-circuits the evaluation. To ensure successful user authentication, we should enable at least two methods: the service account tokens authenticator and one of the user authenticators.
