Worker Node Overview

A worker node provides a running environment for client applications. These applications are microservices running as application containers. In Kubernetes the application containers are encapsulated in Pods, controlled by the cluster control plane agents running on the control plane node. Pods are scheduled on worker nodes, where they find required compute, memory and storage resources to run, and networking to talk to each other and the outside world. A Pod is the smallest scheduling work unit in Kubernetes. It is a logical collection of one or more containers scheduled together, and the collection can be started, stopped, or rescheduled as a single unit of work.

Also, in a multi-worker Kubernetes cluster, the network traffic between client users and the containerized applications deployed in Pods is handled directly by the worker nodes, and is not routed through the control plane node.

Components;
 
A.Container Runtime

Although Kubernetes is described as a "container orchestration engine", it lacks the capability to directly handle and run containers. In order to manage a container's lifecycle, Kubernetes requires a container runtime on the node where a Pod and its containers are to be scheduled. A runtime is required on each node of a Kubernetes cluster, both control plane and worker. The recommendation is to run the Kubernetes control plane components as containers, hence the necessity of a runtime on the control plane nodes. Kubernetes supports several container runtimes:

CRI-O
A lightweight container runtime for Kubernetes, supporting quay.io and Docker Hub image registries.
containerd
A simple, robust, and portable container runtime.
Docker Engine
A popular and complex container platform which uses containerd as a container runtime.
Mirantis Container Runtime
Formerly known as the Docker Enterprise Edition.

B.Node agent-kubelet

The kubelet is the agent that runs on all nodes to ensure that containers defined by the API Server are running, monitoring their health and resources. It uses the Container Runtime Interface (CRI) via gRPC, allowing it to connect to different container engines through an abstraction layer. Further details are available at blog.kubernetes.io.

C. Kubelet - CRI shlims

kubelet - CRI shims
Originally the kubelet agent supported only a couple of container runtimes, first the Docker Engine followed by rkt, through a unique interface model integrated directly in the kubelet source code. However, this approach was not intended to last forever even though it was especially beneficial for Docker. In time, Kubernetes started migrating towards a standardized approach to container runtime integration by introducing the CRI. Kubernetes adopted a decoupled and flexible method to integrate with various container runtimes without the need to recompile its source code. Any container runtime that implements the CRI could be used by Kubernetes to manage containers.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Containerd and CRI-O are the two most widely used high-level container runtimes in Kubernetes. Both perform the exact same function: they receive commands from the kubelet via the CRI interface to pull images and start containers (using low-level tools like runc).
Key Points for Each:
containerd — General Purpose: Originally part of the Docker engine before being donated to the CNCF; it can be used independently of Kubernetes for other system tasks.
Plugin Usage: Implements the CRI interface via a built-in plugin (cri). Market Dominance: It is the industry standard and the default choice for the vast majority of managed cloud services (AWS EKS, Google GKE, Azure AKS).
CRI-O — Created for Kubernetes: Developed from scratch by Red Hat, IBM, SUSE, and Intel with the sole objective of serving Kubernetes; it does not operate outside of a cluster environment.
Native and Minimalist: The CRI specification is natively integrated into its core; it contains no additional code or tools not required by Kubernetes. Coupled Lifecycle: Strictly follows Kubernetes release and versioning cycles to ensure seamless compatibility; it is the default runtime in Red Hat OpenShift.

------------------------------------------

dockershim and cri-dockerd
Before Kubernetes release v1.24 the dockershim allowed containers to be created and managed by invoking the Docker Engine and its internal runtime containerd. Due to Docker Engine's popularity, this shim has been the default interface used by kubelet. However, starting with Kubernetes release v1.24, the dockershim is no longer being maintained by the Kubernetes project, its specific code is removed from kubelet source code, thus will no longer be supported by the kubelet node agent of Kubernetes. As a result, Docker, Inc., and Mirantis have agreed to introduce and maintain a replacement adapter, cri-dockerd that would ensure that the Docker Engine will continue to be a container runtime option for Kubernetes, in addition to the Mirantis Container Runtime (MCR). The introduction of cri-dockerd also ensures that both Docker Engine and MCR follow the same standardized integration method as the CRI-compatible runtimes.

----------------------------------------------

Proxy - kube-proxy
The kube-proxy is the network agent which runs on each node, control plane and workers, responsible for dynamic updates and maintenance of all networking rules on the node. It abstracts the details of Pods networking and forwards connection requests to the containers in the Pods.

The kube-proxy is responsible for TCP, UDP, and SCTP stream forwarding or random forwarding across a set of Pod backends of an application, and it implements forwarding rules defined by users through Service API objects.

The kube-proxy node agent operates in conjunction with the iptables of the node. Iptables is a firewall utility created for the Linux OS that can be managed by users through a CLI utility of the same name. The iptables utility is available for and pre-installed on many Linux distributions.

Close Add-ons
Add-ons are cluster features and functionality not yet available in Kubernetes, therefore implemented through 3rd-party plugins and services.

DNS
Cluster DNS is a DNS server required to assign DNS records to Kubernetes objects and resources.
Dashboard
A general purpose web-based user interface for cluster management.
Monitoring
Collects cluster-level container metrics and saves them to a central data store.
Logging
Collects cluster-level container logs and saves them to a central log store for analysis.
Device Plugins
For system hardware resources, such as GPU, FPGA, high-performance NIC, to be advertised by the node to application pods.

