Nodes
Nodes are virtual identities assigned by Kubernetes to the systems part of the cluster - whether Virtual Machines, bare-metal, Containers, etc. These identities are unique to each system, and are used by the cluster for resources accounting and monitoring purposes, which helps with workload management throughout the cluster.

Each node is managed with the help of two Kubernetes node agents - kubelet and kube-proxy, while it also hosts a container runtime. The container runtime is required to run all containerized workload on the node - control plane agents and user workloads. The kubelet and kube-proxy node agents are responsible for executing all local workload management related tasks - interact with the runtime to run containers, monitor containers and node health, report any issues and node state to the API Server, and manage network traffic to containers.

Based on their predetermined functions, there are two distinct types of nodes - control plane and worker. A typical Kubernetes cluster includes at least one control plane node, but it may include multiple control plane nodes for the High Availability (HA) of the control plane. In addition, the cluster includes one or more worker nodes to provide resource redundancy in the cluster. There are cases when a single all-in-one cluster is bootstrapped as a single node on a single VM, bare-metal, or Container, when high availability and resource redundancy are not of importance. These are hybrid or mixed nodes hosting both control plane agents and user workload on the same system. Minikube allows us to bootstrap multi-node clusters with distinct, dedicated control plane nodes, however, if our host system has a limited amount of physical resources (CPU, RAM, disk), we can easily bootstrap a single all-in-one cluster as a single node on a single VM or Container, and still be able to explore most of the topics covered in this course, with the exception of features specific to multi-node clusters, such as DaemonSets, multi node networking, etc.

Node identities are created and assigned during the cluster bootstrapping process by the tool responsible to initialize the cluster agents. Minikube is using the default kubeadm bootstrapping tool, to initialize the control plane node during the init phase and grow the cluster by adding worker or control plane nodes with the join phase.

The control plane nodes run the control plane agents, such as the API Server, Scheduler, Controller Managers, and etcd in addition to the kubelet and kube-proxy node agents, the container runtime, and add-ons for container networking, monitoring, logging, DNS, etc.

Worker nodes run the kubelet and kube-proxy node agents, the container runtime, and add-ons for container networking, monitoring, logging, DNS, etc.

Collectively, the control plane node(s) and the worker node(s) represent the Kubernetes cluster. A cluster’s nodes are systems distributed either on the same private network, across different networks, even across different cloud networks.
